doc/manual/m/install/preq.rst, before:

Prerequisites
=============

**Hardware**

A relatively recent Nvidia GPU is mandatory for the GPU code.
Nothing special is needed for the CPU code.

**Operating Systems and Compilers**

In order to compile the GPU code, the most recent
`PGI compiler <https://www.pgroup.com/products/community.htm>`_
is preferred for the OpenACC directives. Due to its limitations,
the GPU code is unavailable on macOS.

No effort has been spared on building excutables for Windows yet.

For Linux, we need:

- GNU or Intel Fortran compiler.
- Recent C++ compiler that supports C++11 syntax.
- (GPU code only) PGI compiler for OpenACC and nvcc for CUDA.
- If Nvidia driver has been installed correctly, *nvidia-smi* should be
  available.

**FFTW Libraries**

Two prebuilt FFTW libraries: *libfftw3* and *libfftw3_threads* are used by
Tinker. Two more FFTW libraries, *libfftw3f*, *libfftw3f_threads* are
needed by the single precision CPU code.

**More About Using PGI Compiler on the Clusters**

I recently (in Jan. 2020) worked on a cluster that was still running
Red Hat with gcc 4.8.5 by default without root privilege. Although several
more recent gcc and PGI versions were available via the *module* program,
the most recent PGI compiler (2019) was still configured with gcc 4.8.5
by default, which had a very bad support for C++11.
Since I didn't have root privilege on the cluster, I had to use
a custom *localrc* file by running the following command to
reconfigure PGI compiler with gcc 7.4.0:

.. code-block:: bash

   makelocalrc $PGI/linux86-64-llvm/2019 \
   -gcc /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/gcc \
   -gpp /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/g++ \
   -g77 /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/gfortran \
   -o -net > /path/to/new_config

then added *export PGI_LOCALRC=/path/to/new_config* to my bash resource file.

**Other Nonmandatory Utilities**

- `ClangFormat <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html>`_:
  to format the source code.

- `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org>`_: to generate user's manual.

   - PDF version also depends on `TeX <https://www.tug.org/begin.html>`_.

   - HTML version requires
     `sphinx-rtd-theme <https://pypi.org/project/sphinx-rtd-theme>`_
     from *pip*.

     .. code-block:: bash

        pip install sphinx-rtd-theme

- `Doxygen <https://www.doxygen.nl>`_: to generate developer's manual.

Commit message:

build on Windows WSL2 Ubuntu

doc/manual/m/install/preq.rst, after:

Prerequisites
=============

**Hardware**

A relatively recent Nvidia GPU is mandatory for the GPU code.
Nothing special is needed for the CPU code.

**Operating Systems and Compilers**

In order to compile the GPU code, the most recent
`PGI compiler <https://www.pgroup.com/products/community.htm>`_
is preferred for the OpenACC directives. Due to its limitations,
the GPU code is unavailable on macOS.

For Linux, we need:

- GNU or Intel Fortran compiler.
- Recent C++ compiler that supports C++11 syntax.
- (GPU code only) PGI compiler for OpenACC and nvcc for CUDA.
- If Nvidia driver has been installed correctly, *nvidia-smi* should be
  available.

The PGI compilers have recently been rebranded as
`NVIDIA HPC SDK <https://developer.nvidia.com/hpc-sdk>`_
and we successfully built Tinker9 on Windows WSL2 Ubuntu with
CUDA 11.0 and NVHPC 20.9. Please proceed to
`this webpage <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/wsl-user-guide/index.html>`_
for more details.

**FFTW Libraries**

Two prebuilt FFTW libraries: *libfftw3* and *libfftw3_threads* are used by
Tinker. Two more FFTW libraries, *libfftw3f*, *libfftw3f_threads* are
needed by the single precision CPU code.

**More About Using PGI Compiler on the Clusters**

I recently (in Jan. 2020) worked on a cluster that was still running
Red Hat with gcc 4.8.5 by default without root privilege. Although several
more recent gcc and PGI versions were available via the *module* program,
the most recent PGI compiler (2019) was still configured with gcc 4.8.5
by default, which had a very bad support for C++11.
Since I didn't have root privilege on the cluster, I had to use
a custom *localrc* file by running the following command to
reconfigure PGI compiler with gcc 7.4.0:

.. code-block:: bash

   makelocalrc $PGI/linux86-64-llvm/2019 \
   -gcc /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/gcc \
   -gpp /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/g++ \
   -g77 /usr/local/gcc-7.4.0/bin/gfortran \
   -o -net > /path/to/new_config

then added *export PGI_LOCALRC=/path/to/new_config* to my bash resource file.

**Other Nonmandatory Utilities**

- `ClangFormat <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html>`_:
  to format the source code.

- `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org>`_: to generate user's manual.

   - PDF version also depends on `TeX <https://www.tug.org/begin.html>`_.

   - HTML version requires
     `sphinx-rtd-theme <https://pypi.org/project/sphinx-rtd-theme>`_
     from *pip*.

     .. code-block:: bash

        pip install sphinx-rtd-theme

- `Doxygen <https://www.doxygen.nl>`_: to generate developer's manual.
